Hii, Everyone in this section, we are going to learn about backtracking, which is a very powerful concept
in algorithmic problem solving.
So it's an algorithmic technique in which we recursively try to build solutions.
We try to search through the entire search space to solve a computation problem.
So you might ask.
Okay, give me one example.
So basically we would be discussing various problems, such as popular problems are N queen problem finding
permutations, finding subsets.
So each of these problems can be divided into one of these categories.
One is the decision problem.
One is a optimization problem, and one is a enumeration problem.
So what is a decision problem
In a decision problem, we check for a feasible solution.
For example, let's say you are given a grid.
And in that particular grid, let's say there are certain cells that are blocked.
Maybe the cell is blocked.
This is blocked.
This is blocked and this is blocked.
And you're standing here and you want to tell me whether it is feasible to start from this cell and reach
this particular cell.
Okay.
So this is like checking for a feasible solution.
So you have to tell yes or no whether a solution is possible or not.
Now, the solution will depend upon certain constraints that are given in the problem.
Okay?
So the constraints can be on the movement, how the person can move, whether he can move left or down,
if it can move only left and down.
right and down
Then there is no way we can reach this particular cell.
But if the diagonal movement is also allowed, yes.
In that way we can reach this particular cell.
This is a decision problem.
Okay.
another could be an optimization problem maybe where we want to find out the best solution.
Okay, so maybe we are given maybe a set of nodes.
And let's say, we have something, let's say from every node we can go to every other node.
Okay.
Maybe we want to find out the path which covers.
All the nodes.
Okay.
Maybe find the path which covers all the nodes, but.
in a minimum cost.
okay, in a minimum cost.
It's this is like an optimization problem.
So maybe a path which covers all the nodes but in a minimum cost, let's say A, B, C, D, E and
F from every node to every other node, there is some cost associated.
So this is like finding out the best solution out of multiple solutions that we can do.
This is, again, kind of a backtracking problem and example could be something similar to traveling
salesman problem.
If you if you have heard okay?, another is an enumeration problem where we need to find out all the possible
solutions.
So basically, let's say we are given.
Given let's say a string ABC and we want to find out all the subsets of this particular string or maybe
we want to find out all the permutations of this particular string.
Okay.
So if we talk about permutations, it would be ABC, CBA, BAC, BCA and so on.
We will have ]3! i.e six permutations.
So this is about finding all the permutations because we will discuss these type of problems in this
particular section and we will also discuss some popular classical problems which are again which fall
into one of these categories.
So classical problems like a rat in a maze problem, where a rat is stuck in a maze and there is a problem
which is known as N Queen problem.
We will discuss that and discuss phone keyboard problem.
We will discuss the sudoku solver.
Okay.
So these are some common problems that you will find there is knights toms problem.
So these are some common problems that you will often see in backtracking.
There is not a lot of variety if you understand and learn how to solve these basic problems.
You can easily apply those concepts to newer unseen problems in backtracking if you encounter.
Okay.
So that's the end goal of this particular section and I hope you would really learn a lot.